Welcome to the eLearning session
Getting Started with Ensemble,
The Basic Components.
This session will describe
the basic building blocks
of an Ensemble solution
and the basic tools
that you will use to
build and manage it.
Ensemble is designed
to connect applications
using a wide variety of
technologies and protocols.
An Ensemble solution is
known as a Production.
An Ensemble Production
defines all the components
that handle inbound and
outbound connections,
and control the flow of
information between them.
The Production is created
once and configuration items
are added to complete
the solution.
The inbound connection points
are known as Business Services,
while the outbound
connection points are
known as Business Operations.
These handle the technology
used for connection,
such as TCP/IP, flat files,
SOAP, FTP, HTTP, and so forth.
Some formats, such as those
used in an HL7 Production,
are pre-built
components that just
have to be configured with
the appropriate parameters,
such as the port number
for TCP/IP, or the path
and file names for flat files.
For specific
applications, users may
develop their own
Business Services
or Business Operations.
Business Services and
Business Operations
often use adapters to handle
the specific technology
and protocol used to
communicate with an application.
The Business Services
and Business Operations
and their associated
adapters handle
everything to do
with the connection,
such as initial connection,
retries, timeouts, and framing,
as well as the
actual wire protocol.
This is kept separate
from any business logic
to orchestrate calls to
separate applications
or to route a
transformer request.
A Business Process is used
to implement this business
logic that decides where an
incoming request should be sent
or to orchestrate calls
to external applications
to build a reply.
At runtime, a Business
Process could send requests
to many Business Operations or
to other Business Processes.
These requests can
be asynchronous,
and a Business Process may
have to wait hours or even
days for a response.
While waiting, the Business
Process is written to disk
and is only re-opened
when the response arrives.
A large Production may have
hundreds of these configuration
items.
When a Production
is started, jobs
are started to run
all of the components.
Here you see a production
in the configuration
page of the Ensemble
Management portal.
Configuration items, such as
Business Services, Processes,
and Operations, communicate
by sending messages,
so a Business Service may send
a request message to a Business
Process and get a
response message back.
You can see here that
the Business Service
CompositeOrderService sends
a message to the Business
Process, CompositeOrderProcess,
which in turn sends
a message to the Business
Process RestockProcess
and the Business Operations
Inventory, OrderProcessing,
and PriceList.
As you can imagine, messages
are an integral part
of an Ensemble solution.
Business Processes can be
written in custom code,
but most either use a
routing engine together
with routing rules, or are
written in Business Process
Language, or BPL.
Here you see a Business Process
in the Ensemble graphical BPL
editor.
BPL is designed to
orchestrate calls
to Business Operations and
other Business Processes.
Business rules allow
a business analyst
to make changes to the
way a running Business
Process behaves.
The designer of the
Business Process
adds the call to
the rule and makes
use of the values
returned by the rules
to determine how the Business
Process will continue.
On a running system,
an analyst can then
modify the rules
without stopping
the system or changing code.
Routing Rules are
a form of rule used
by a special Business Process
known as a Message Router.
Here is an HL7 Routing
Rule implemented
without programming.
When connecting systems, it
is very common to convert
or map a message or record to a
similar but slightly different
format.
In Ensemble, this is done
using Data Transformation.
Data Transformations are built
using our Data Transformation
Language, or DTL.
The Ensemble Studio provides
a graphical drag-and-drop
interface to make it easy
to develop Transformations.
The Ensemble tools are
accessed by clicking
on the blue E in the system
tray of a Windows workstation,
allowing you to connect to
an Ensemble instance running
on your local PC
or a remote server.
Alternately, you can bookmark
the URL in your web browser.
The Ensemble
Management portal is
used to manage and
configure the system
and to develop some of the
components described here.
This includes configuration
and operations tasks
that are common to
Ensemble and Cache,
such as managing security, as
well as the Ensemble-specific
management.
The Ensemble Management
portal allows
you to configure a production,
look at the history
or messages that have
passed through the system
and any errors that
might have occurred.
You can also look at the
current state of the system,
including the status
of components,
the length and
content of the queues,
and many other aspects
of the running system.
The Ensemble
Management portal also
includes the graphical editors
to develop DTL, BPL, business
rules, and record maps.
The Ensemble Studio is used
for developing and maintaining
new components in Ensemble.
Because Ensemble
is object-oriented,
almost everything you
develop will be a class.
In most cases you will create a
subclass of a standard Ensemble
class that provides most of
the functionality you need.
For Ensemble classes
written in BPL or DTL,
the Ensemble Studio
automatically
uses the appropriate
graphical editor.
Thank you for watching
Getting Started with Ensemble,
The Basic Components.